= Install instructions for Linux: =

This Install needs to be done on all nodes of the network exactly the same, no matter if it is the server/hub or a node. ## Install Dependencies

We will be using apt to install development tools and dependencies before we download the source code of Tinc.

First we will download essential packages to compile Tinc as a sudo user.

<source lang="shell">sudo apt install build-essential automake libssl-dev liblzo2-dev libbz2-dev zlib1g-dev libncurses5-dev libreadline-dev net-tools wget</source>
== Download Tinc ==

Navigate into a tmp folder. - (Note: I was getting errors running the configure file in the tmp folder)

<source lang="shell">cd /tmp</source>
Download tinc 1.1 with wget and uncompres the downloaded item to a folder with tar.

<source lang="shell">wget https://www.tinc-vpn.org/packages/tinc-1.1pre17.tar.gz 
tar xvf tinc-1.1pre17.tar.gz</source>
== Install from source ==

Navigate into the folder and run the configure file to set tinc up.

<source lang="shell">cd tinc-1.1pre17 
sh ./configure </source>
Install Tinc!

<source lang="shell">make 
sudo make install</source>
== Config Settings ==

Once installed, create a configuration directory. All configurations of tinc will happen in this folder. Using tinc subcommands (like invite / join), result in changes to the files in this folder.

<source lang="shell">sudo mkdir -p /usr/local/etc/tinc/</source>
we also need to make a folder to hold the pid (working file)

<source lang="shell">sudo mkdir -p /usr/local/var/run/</source>
== Tinc App Image ==

The tinc executable is installed in

<code>/usr/local/sbin/tinc</code>

This means that you can only run tinc as sudo, since sbin directory saves binary executables that can be ran only by sudo (s+bin)
